JUDY WOODRUFF: In what
was perhaps the most
consequential decision
in Britain this century,
voters are now having second
thoughts about their choice
to leave the European Union.
A new opinion poll shows
a majority of British
people now want to stay,
and business leaders
are warning their once
flourishing economy
will flounder unless
the right compromise
is reached with the E.U.
during exit negotiations.
Add to that a deeply
divided government after
the recent election has
left a hung Parliament,
and it has become harder for
many to keep calm and carry on.
Special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant reports.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Aldeburgh
in Eastern England,
this is Brexit beach.
The town's centuries'
old fishing tradition
is on its deathbed.
In common with kindred coastal
communities around the country,
fishermen voted to leave
the European Union.
They believe excessive
regulation from Brussels
is killing their industry.
One year after Britain's
so-called independence
day, Mark Foreman is
worried that the country's
commitment to
Brexit is wavering.
MARK FOREMAN, Fisherman:
I thought that would
improve the fishing
situation, but now I have
got my doubts.
I would have still come out
anyway for anything else.
I want the country to be run by
British people, not by the E.U.
I think there's too many
people who are in power who
are against Brexit, and I think
there are so many people
with money tied up in Europe.
They just don't
want to come out.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The government
has promised to revitalize the
fishing industry post-Brexit,
but, in the current climate,
Kirk Stripling fears betrayal.
KIRK STRIPLING, Fisherman:
I'm really afraid that we
will be sold down the river.
They will do a deal
over something else and
sacrifice us fishermen.
We're in a ludicrous situation,
where we only catch what is in
season at the time and which
is on our doorstep.
And quite often, we can have
loads of the fish in the sea
right here and we have got
no quota to catch it.
So we sit here and starve to
death, while the fish swim by.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Polar opposite
views about Europe prevail
80 miles away in Cambridge,
a historic seat of
learning and innovation.
This is Britain's
Silicon Valley, whose
ethos is that science is
collaborative and requires
an international,
frontier-free mentality.
But campus director
Professor Michael Wakelam
fears its cutting-edge
biotech research and
development could be jeopardized
by what some perceive as the
xenophobic nature of Brexit.
MICHAEL WAKELAM, Professor: We
will have a reduced access to
the talent pool within Europe.
And, secondly, what Brexit
says about our approach as a
country is that people no longer
want to work with us.
There is a perception
that Britain is no longer
a welcoming place for
talented people to come.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Cambridge-based
entrepreneur David Cleevely
specializes in turning great
ideas into profitable
businesses.
A self-proclaimed angel
investor, he disputes
the Brexit mantra that
leaving the E.U. would
enable British companies
to exploit untapped markets
in the rest of the world.
DAVID CLEEVELY, Entrepreneur:
We do business in some of the
most difficult countries, in
Pakistan, or in Nigeria
or other countries, for
example, in South America.
And the amount of extra margin
there is there for increasing
those exports is, quite frankly,
limited.
My concern about Brexit is
that we have a big market just
a few miles away, and we're
not going to be able to access
it as freely as we could before.
MALCOLM BRABANT: According
to a new opinion poll, the
result of the Brexit referendum
would be reversed if
it was held today.
The survey showed that a clear
majority, 54 percent, would vote
to remain within the European
Union, and 46 percent
would decide to leave.
It's quite clear that many
Britons regret the decision
they made last year, and perhaps
wish that the Brexit
mechanism could be reversed.
According to experts, that's
technically possible, but
it's unlikely to happen.
At Trinity College,
professor Catherine
Barnard believes the recent
election, which left Britain
with a minority government,
has further undermined
its hand during protracted
talks to withdraw
from Europe.
CATHERINE BARNARD, Trinity
College: In reality, the U.K.
is in a somewhat weak bargaining
position.
The famous phrase is to have
your cake and eat it, that
it would be possible both to
leave the European
Union, but have the
best bits of membership.
And it's always been clear that
the E.U. wasn't going to allow
this, because why would they?
It's not in the E.U.'s
interests for a country
to do what the U.K. did.
And so it's in the E.U.'s
interests, as Chancellor
Merkel has said, is
to look after the E.U.
27, which means being
tough on the U.K.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This monument
commemorates the Great Fire
of London, which wiped out
much of England's
capital in 1666.
Many economists fear that Brexit
will have a similar impact on
the city of London, Europe's
biggest financial
services center.
The Japanese bank Nomura has
said it will move some of its
operations to Germany after
Brexit.
Others may join the exodus.
This week, a city of
London delegation is
heading to Brussels to
appeal for a free trade
deal to preserve a sector
that generates 12 percent
of Britain's income.
Jens Torpe is the Danish
publisher of a daily
business newspaper.
JENS TORPE, Newspaper
Publisher: I think,
inevitably, that a number
of bankers and institutions
would have to move
over to the continent.
It's about half-a-million
people working here.
I think you would see at
least some 50,000 moving out.
So, I think it's going
to have quite dramatic
implications for the city.
The latest growth figures
for Britain put us down
on the same par as Italy.
We used to be number one in
the E.U., so everybody agrees
that there is a crisis coming.
MALCOLM BRABANT: London's
cosmopolitan Borough
Market is flourishing
again after last month's
Islamist terror attack in which
eight people were murdered.
Some traders favor a so-called
soft Brexit, which would permit
the continued free movement
of goods and people
from the continent.
A hard Brexit would mean the
reimposition of import tariffs
and restrict the migration
of E.U. citizens.
Marianna Kolookotroni from
southern Greece has been running
this stall for seven years.
MARIANNA KOLOOKOTRONI,
Vendor: It is a little
bit scary, I have to say.
But I am trying to remain
positive, and I really hope
that nothing is going to change,
because it's not in the
interests of anyone, really.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Thea Wunder
is from Italy's border with
Austria, and she fears customs
duty resulting from a
hard Brexit would compound
price increases on her
meat products, caused
by the British currency dropping
in value after the referendum.
THEA WUNDER, Vendor: So the
exchange rate, it has already
affected it, so the euro has
much more value
than it used to be.
So, I already -- the business
already loses money on that.
And there's only so much we
can put our prices up to be
still fair and competitive.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Britain's
tourism and hospitality
industry generates 10
percent of the nation's
income.
It relies heavily on foreign
workers; 25 percent of the three
million people in this field
comes from the European Union.
The duty manager Bashir Issa
is originally from Somalia.
BASHIR ISSA, Duty Manager:
British people are not working
in the industry, and we need
to have the European community
or anywhere else in the
world coming to us with their
expertise, helping us
and the industry to grow.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The
industry wants to preserve
freedom of movement, and
is lobbying the government
hard.
Spokesman Vernon Hunte:
VERNON HUNTE, Hospitality
Industry Spokesman: We
believe that the economy
must be put first,
that the British industry,
especially, of course, from
our perspective, hospitality
businesses, their needs and
requirements are put first.
NICK WARD, Britain: Independent
doesn't mean isolated.
It's an interactive
independence.
Where do people get this idea
that, when you're independent,
you're closing your doors?
They're mad.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Nick
Ward relishes the
freedom of motorcycling.
Independence and national
sovereignty drive his
continued support for Brexit.
NICK WARD: There's more
to it than economics.
What Brexit actually means is
that you want to control your
own borders and you want to
make your own laws.
And that is your starting
point for negotiations.
Why do so many people want to
come here in the first place?
Britain is probably the
least racist or xenophobic
country in all of Europe.
Try being black and
playing football in Poland.
We want to interact and
we want to maintain this
beautiful island for
everybody and generations
to come.
MALCOLM BRABANT: British
attitudes towards
Europe are turning, as
people belatedly agree
with the so-called remainers
that pre-referendum,
pro-Brexit rhetoric was flawed.
Business leaders hope
the prospect of economic
trouble will convince the
government to compromise
with Brussels.
On Brexit beach, Britain's
schisms are as deep as ever.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant in Aldeburgh.